The Hilltop
Best Places to Study on Campus
Finding a place to study can be hard for campus new-comers. Here’s your guide to the best study spaces at Howard.
The Stacks
Do you consider yourself an old soul with an appreciation for vintage things? If the answer is yes, then Stacks is the perfect place for you. With an “A Different World” atmosphere, a study session in the Stacks will make you feel like you’re in the early 90s. Snuck deep inside Founders Library, with books, literally, stacked everywhere, this study spot induces the perfect atmosphere for quiet, interactive study time.
Hours of operation: Monday–Friday  8:00 am – 5:00 pm
Founders Library
Founders Library was built in the 1930s and named a “national treasure” by the National Trust for Historic Preservation in 2012.
Imagine needing to focus completely on a project, and everywhere you turn, there is a social gathering on campus. The one place where you can escape the madness is located in the center of the Yard: Founders Library. This Howard landmark’s vast quiet spaces will keep you focused and diligent. Founders is the place to “lock-in.”
Hours of operation: Monday through Thursday 8:00 a.m. – midnight, Friday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Saturday 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m., Sunday 1:30 p.m. – 10:00 p.m.
Wayne A.I. Frederick Undergraduate Library
Also known as “UGL”
After undergoing eight years of renovation, this library features a café, private study rooms, printers, desktop computers, and ample floor space for students to enjoy. (Photo courtesy of Founders Library Access Services Department)
If the retro look is not your vibe, and you love a modern-tech environment, the Wayne A. I. Frederick Undergraduate Library might be the perfect setting for you. Equipped with transparent private and group study rooms, UGL offers plenty of space and opportunity to get some work done. Some hours are quieter than others. In this library, you are able to experience the best of both worlds in terms of studying socially. This library is open all week, including weekends. Starting Aug. 14, reservations will be required for the group study rooms. Students will be able to reserve from the convenience of their phone or laptop!
Hours of operation: Monday through Thursday 8:00 a.m. – midnight, Friday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m., Saturday 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m., Sunday 1:30 p.m. – 10:00 p.m.
Louis Stokes Health Sciences Library
Also known as “Stokes”
Over his 30-year career, Rep. Louis Stokes increased funding to expand access to biomedical research for people of color.
If you like places where you can whisper to your study buddy without feeling the shame of opening a bag of chips, you will love Louis Stokes Library. Down the street from Annex, sits this campus library with quiet and talk-friendly spaces, offering you the perfect space to work alone or collaborate with friends.
Hours of operation: Monday through Friday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Howard Plaza Towers, West
P-42, the largest study room in Howard Plaza Towers, West, offers the most space for either private or group study sessions.
Looking for a convenient and casual place to get some work done? The study nooks inside Howard Plaza Towers West will work best for you. Located to the right on the first floor of the building, the study rooms create productive environments and are fashioned with conveniently placed outlets. There are smaller, more private rooms and larger, collaborative ones like the one pictured above.
An empty classroom
Every building on campus has its own distinct vibe. Trying to find a spot in between classes, you may stumble upon an empty classroom like an unexplored land. These can be hard to come by, so take a seat if you’re lucky. Empty classrooms are a great place to get some work done because they have everything you need: wifi, outlets, ample desk space and AC.
School of Business Library
Also known as “SOB Library”
The School of Business library may be inside SOB, but it is not limited to business students. All students are welcome.
Not everyone is a morning person, but if you are, the School of Business library is the ultimate workspace for early-bird-workers. Just past the entrance of the School of Business building, the SOB Library offers a quiet space with minimal echo. It is not one of the go-to places on campus, meaning you can really focus during your study time.
Hours of operation: Monday – Friday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
