Seven Places to Study on Howard's Campus
N'dia Webb (student contributor)
Aug 12, 2022
2 minutes
As the school year approaches, the time comes once again for students to choose where to study. But where does a student, especially a freshman, start to find that special place? We asked several students about their favorite place to crack open the books, or at least pretend to while socializing.
(This student writer is a Douglass girl at heart. Specifically the first-floor study rooms; she loves the designs of each room and the consistent quiet environment helps her focus, like on writing this article.)
The Writing Center in Locke Hall
“The Writing Center has lots of natural lighting with a huge table that allows me to spread out my work.” – Abrahm Cleveland, political science, class of ’23
Founders Library
“My favorite place to study on campus is Founders Library! It’s historic and sentimental to me, so it’s very easy for me to study there.” – Zoé Coker, African American studies, class of ’24
Stokes Health Sciences Library
“I like HSL because it's usually quiet and scarcely populated. Also, as a nutritional science major, I get access to the study lounges which is great for collaboration with my other classmates.” – Fadiya Perry, nutritional sciences, class of ’23
Douglass Hall
“I like going to Douglass for studying because there are rarely people in the building during the night and I often get whole rooms to myself or with friends.” – JD Jean-Jacques, history, class of ’25
Undergraduate Library
“My favorite place to study on campus is in the back classrooms of UGL early in the morning. It is calm and extremely quiet because most people don’t wake up early enough to be there or in class so I can get my studying done earlier and enjoy the evening.” – Dexter Donald, business, class of ’25
Under the Caribbean Tree on the Yard
“I like to study under the Caribbean Tree because I enjoy the beauty of the Yard and watching students walk around campus.” – Parker Wilson-Grooms, business management, class of ’23
School of Business Student Lounge (Under renovation)
“When I’m on campus, my favorite place to study is in the SOB student lounge because the location is convenient and allows me to focus on my work.” – Shjan Carter, marketing, class of ’24
