Welcome to Founders Library
Founders Library and the Wayne A.I. Frederick Undergraduate Library (UGL)
Hours of Operation
Monday – Thursday: 8:00 am – 10:00 pm
Friday: 8:00 am – 5:00 pm
Saturday: 9:00 am – 6:00 pm
Sunday: 1:30 pm – 10:00 pm
Library Resources
Using the Library
Howard University Libraries offer students, faculty, and staff access to a diverse range of academic resources, research support, and study spaces.
Research Support
Our librarians are information experts skilled at helping you discover the resources you need. Whether you're working on a paper, preparing for a presentation, or exploring a topic out of personal interest, support is available online and in person.
The Innovation Hub
The Howard University Libraries Innovation Hub is a collaborative learning environment where creativity, technology, and exploration come together. Designed to support students, faculty, and researchers across disciplines, the Innovation Hub provides access to emerging technologies, specialized tools, hands-on learning opportunities, and expert support to help transform ideas into meaningful projects.
News and Events
Discover what's happening at Howard University Libraries! From upcoming workshops and guest lectures to new collections and service updates, this is your hub for the latest news and events.
Patent and Trademark Resource Center
Founders Library is one of over 100 federally designated Patent & Trademark Resource Centers (PTRCs) in the U.S., and the first at an HBCU, established in 1986. As part of a national USPTO network, the PTRC serves as a hub for innovation and entrepreneurship within and beyond the Howard community.
Academic Guide to Fair Use and Copyright
The Academic Guide to Fair Use and Copyright is a practical resource designed to help faculty, students, and researchers navigate the complexities of using copyrighted materials in an educational setting.
The Howard University Libraries
Founders Library
The flagship of the Howard University Libraries (HUL), Founders Library is the main arts and sciences library and the hub of most of HUL's internal and consortium-based services.
Wayne A. I. Frederick Undergraduate Library
Since 1983, the Wayne A. I. Frederick Undergraduate Library has been a space specifically designed for collaborative use by our undergraduate population.
Moorland Spingarn Research Center
As one of Howard University's major research facilities, the MSRC collects, preserves, organizes, and makes available for research a wide range of resources chronicling the Black experience throughout the African Diaspora.
The School of Divinity Library
The Divinity Collection comprises over 100,000 volumes, with an emphasis on biblical studies, Reformed theology, church history, ethics, world religions, pastoral counseling, and urban ministries.
Louis Stokes Health Sciences Library
The Louis Stokes Health Sciences Library is the primary health information resource facility for the University's medical, dental, pharmacy, nursing, and allied health sciences students and faculty.
Vernon E. Jordan Jr. Law Library
The Howard University Vernon E. Jordan Jr. Law Library offers a comprehensive collection of high-quality legal materials for the Law School's faculty and students.
