Louis Stokes Health Sciences Library: Library Info
Hours and Contact Information
Library Hours
2026 Summer Hours
Monday - Friday: 8:00 am - 5:00 pm
Saturday - Sunday: Closed
2026-2027 Regular Hours
(begin Tuesday, September 8th, 2026)
Monday - Friday: 8:00 am - 10:00 pm
Saturday - Sunday: 10:00 am - 6:00 pm
Assistance is also available via chat or email during open hours.
Library resources are always available 24/7.
Address
501 W. Street, NW
Washington, DC 20059
(202) 884-1520
healthscienceslibrary@howard.edu
LSHSL Printable Parking and Directions Info
About Louis Stokes Health Sciences Library (LSHSL)
Named in honor of the venerable congressman for his thirty-year crusade combating disparities in health care, the Louis Stokes Health Sciences Library (LSHSL) is the health information resource for Howard University's medical, dental, pharmacy, nursing, and allied health sciences, students, and faculty. The LSHSL is also equipped to serve the health information needs of individual patients, healthcare providers, the community, and researchers in general.
Spread over 80,000 square feet and towering at four levels of one of the most iconic buildings on campus, the LSHSL has two elevators and offers space to meet various needs of the Howard community.
The Louis Stokes Health Sciences Library is a resource library for the National Networks of Libraries of Medicine of the National Library of Medicine. The library is also one of nine libraries that belong to the Washington Research Library Consortium (WRLC), which supports and enhances member libraries and information services of universities in the Washington, DC metropolitan area. The WRLC enables the success of learning and scholarship by creating coordinated collections, designing a robust infrastructure for discovery and access, and ensuring the long-term preservation of physical and digital information resources and sharing expertise.
The library is affiliated with the Medical Library Association as well as the Association of Academic Health Sciences Libraries (AAHSL). The AAHSL comprises the libraries serving the accredited U.S. and Canadian medical schools belonging to or affiliated with the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC). It includes other related libraries and organizations that lead in resolving information and knowledge management problems in the health care environment.
Information Resources
The LSHSL collection transitioned from print-based to electronic in 2014 to provide online access to high-quality digital assets. Access to 4,791 electronic journals, 3,879 eBooks, and 72 databases are available on-campus and remotely. WRLC shares its collections with Howard University, which makes thousands of additional materials available to LSHSL customers. The library provides immediate and multiple routes of access to electronic resources including full-text journals, full-text books, evidence-based practice tools, indexes, and databases.
The LSHSL Facilities
Overview
The library offers seating for 600, including study carrels with club chairs, throughout the LSHSL in traditional and non-traditional settings.
In addition to campus-wide wireless connection, power and data ports facilitate easy laptop computer use and data retrieval.
There are 21 group- and single-study rooms in total: 11 small study rooms each have a table and 4 chairs; 8 Problem Based Learning rooms are furnished with a table, and seats 10. There are also two single-study rooms for students studying for their board exams. A whiteboard is mounted in each of these rooms.
Ground Floor
The university seal on the floor of the LSHSL Gallery welcomes all patrons to the library. The Gallery is adorned with Howard University memorabilia and accommodates up to 75 people.
With seating for 40, Room 138 is a flexible classroom environment and meeting space.
The Harold J. Kaplan Classroom (Room 119) seats 30.
College of Medicine's Class of 1955 Student Lounge has six tables, seating for 24, three beverage vending machines, a snack machine, microwave, and a television.
Second Floor
Eight Problem-Based Learning rooms are used for seminars and group study spaces. There is a total of 96 chairs and 48 tables.
With seating for 23, the Faculty Reading Room offers a tranquil venue for reading, writing, or relaxing.
Room 219 offers seating for 25 and is a flexible classroom environment and meeting space.
Third Floor
The Special Collections Stacks provide a secure and controlled environment for the preservation of historical materials (rare books, artifacts, manuscripts) documenting the health sciences history of the University and Howard University Hospital. It also serves as a repository for the intellectual contributions of African American health practitioners. These materials are available by appointment only.
With built-in wood and glass cabinetry lining the walls, the Special Collections Reading Room is a pleasant space for the display and use of special collections and archival materials and is also used for executive-level meetings.
Fourth Floor
The Fourth-Floor open space accommodates about 125 persons. This popular room is used for special events and also converts into a study area. Adjacent to this space is the intimate Dr. George Jones Conference Room with scenic views of Freedmen's Square, where the Freedmen's Hospital was initially established to aid in the medical treatment of former slaves in Washington, D.C. In 1868, six years after its founding, Freedmen's Hospital became a teaching hospital for the Howard University Medical School.
The Health Science Testing Center is located on the 4th floor of the Louis Stokes Health Science Library. There are 130 workstations, study carrels, and student lockers.
Circulating Books
Books that are available to be checked out and removed from the library are located on the first floor.
Undergraduate students may check out books for 21 days
Graduate students may check out books for 42 days
Faculty may check out books for one semester
Materials Limited for Use in the Library Only
Reserves
Reserve books are located on the first floor behind the front desk and are for use in the library only. Reserve books may be checked out for a period of 3 hours.
Medical Materials
Medical Materials listed below may be checked out for a period of 3 hours
Bone boxes
Selected anatomical components
Brain
Eye
Hip
Vertebrae
Anatomy Flash Cards
Dental Hygiene Decks
Reference & Instruction
Students and faculty can contact a liaison librarian to make an appointment for a research consultation. Faculty can make a request for a librarian to visit your classroom or schedule time for your class to visit the library.
Topics may include but are not limited to:
Introductory and advanced uses of PubMed and discipline specific resources
Research strategies
Overview of library services
Citation management options (RefWorks, database specific options, etc.)
Study Rooms
Students can check out group study rooms on the library homepage (hsl.howard.edu) or at the Access Services Desk at the library.
Small Study Room (2 people minimum to reserve; seats up to 4)
Large Study Room (4 people minimum to reserve; seats up to 10)
Single Study Room (1 person only; Students studying for Boards have priority access)
Dr. Fatima Barnes, EDD, MPH, MSIS, MBA
Executive Director
(202) 884-1723 / fatima.barnes@howard.edu
Jeremy Gunnoe, MA, MSLIS
Assistant Director of Operations; Medical Librarian
Events & Facilities Management
(202) 884-1507 / jeremy.gunnoe@howard.edu
Vacant
Administrative Assistant
Luke Adelhoch, MLIS
Digital Resources Librarian
(202) 884-1526
luke.adelhoch@howard.edu
Pamela Thomas Roots, MSLS
Medical Librarian
(202) 884-1520
pamela.thomasroots@howard.edu
Floyd J. Csir, MLS, M.Ed.
Clinical Librarian
(202) 884-1730
Floyd.Csir@howard.edu
Christina Jarrett
Library Circulation Specialist
christina.jarrett@howard.edu
Deborah (Webb) McKenzie
Access Services Technician
(202) 884-1520 / dwebb@howard.edu
www.wrlc.org
The Washington Research Library Consortium (WRLC) was established as a non-profit corporation in 1987 to support and enhance the library and information services of universities in the Washington, DC metropolitan area. Our partner universities include:
American University
The Catholic University of America
Gallaudet University
George Mason University
The George Washington University
Georgetown University
Howard University
Marymount University
The University of the District of Columbia
The WRLC enables the success of learning and scholarship by creating coordinated collections, creating a robust infrastructure for discovery and access, ensuring the long-term preservation of physical and digital information resources and sharing expertise.
FAQ's
Louis Stokes Health Sciences Library
(updated 03/25/22)
My password has expired, what should I do?
Your login and password are the same as your Howard email address and password. If you've forgotten your password, please contact Enterprise Technology Services (ETS) at huhelpdesk@howard.edu or (202) 806-2020.
Can I print at LSHSL?
No. Printing is available at the iLab (at the corner of Georgia Ave. and Bryant St. NW) and the Computer Lab @ Founder's Library. You can also utilize the paid printing services at the Shaw Neighborhood Library or the nearest UPS Store (both on 7th St. 1-2 blocks south of Florida Ave.)
Do you have to be a Health Sciences student to enter the library?
No. All HU and HUH students, faculty and staff, and WRLC members may use the library.
How do I reserve a study room?
Go to our website at https://hsl.howard.edu and click on the link to the right of the page that says "Book a Study Room".
Do you have to be a Health Sciences student to check out a study room?
Yes. In addition, you must have two (2) students minimum for small study rooms and four (4) students minimum for the Problem-Based Learning (PBL) rooms.
Who can borrow from the library?
Howard University students, faculty, and staff, other consortium members can borrow materials from the Health Sciences library.
Can we bring food into the library?
Food is allowed in the café area on the 1st floor behind the security desk.
Can Reserve books and materials be checked out?
Reserve books and materials are located behind the circulation desk and can be checked out for 3 hrs with a HU ID (or WRLC ID) but can ONLY be used in the Health Sciences Library.
Can I check out materials from another library in the WRLC consortium?
Yes, you have study privileges and can check out materials from other WRLC consortium libraries that Howard University is affiliated with (see WRLC link). Some restrictions may apply, so we recommend you check with the library before you visit. You can also request that the book be delivered to the Health Sciences Library (this usually takes 2-3 days) or you can go to that University and pick the materials up.
What are the library hours?
Library hours are subject to change and will always be posted in the library, on the library's website, and the library's social media pages.
Annual Report 2016-2017
Annual Report 2019-2020
Annual Report 2020-2021
Directions and Parking
The library is located at 501 W. Street, NW, Washington, DC 20059. This is at the corner of 4th St. NW and W St. NW.
Street and meter parking is available around the library. There is paid garage parking two blocks south of the library across the street from Howard University Hospital. Additional paid parking is available at the Howard University lot on Georgia Ave. The entrance to this lot is west of Georgia Ave. on 8th St. NW.
You may also purchase parking permits for the Georgia Avenue lot and the lot behind the library by going to RunParking (or downloading the app) and entering the library's address.
NOTE: The parking lot behind the library is for authorized vehicles only. Unauthorized vehicles will be ticketed/towed at the owner's expense.
<< Previous: Home
Next: Databases >>
Last Updated: Sep 3, 2026 8:36 AM
URL: https://hsl.howard.edu/library
Print Page
Login to LibApps
Report a problem.
