https://www.reddit.com/r/washingtondc/comments/8rh2bj/most_beautiful_places_to_studyread_in_dc/

Most beautiful places to study/read in DC?
I just moved to the area and am wondering: what, in your opinion, are the most beautiful places to study or read a book indoors in DC? For me, these criteria are especially important:
-Free entry/admission (or, in the case of cafes, reasonable prices)
-No pressure to leave after just a few hours
-Not TOO quiet (my mind wanders too much in silent, empty, motionless surroundings)
-Restrooms nearby
-Chairs and tables available
-Beautiful surroundings or a beautiful view, of course
My current picks:
the Kogod Courtyard at the Smithsonian American Art Museum
the famous main reading room of the Library of Congress.
8y ago
The covered courtyard in the Portrait gallery is nice if its raining. DC public libraries are very nice esp the one in Georgetown.
Agree with you on DC Public Library in Georgetown. Nice big windows and pretty wood furniture. Garden space in the back is nice too.
And there's a bus stop right next to it so you don't have to walk up Wisconsin
Luce Center on the top floor of the National Portrait Gallery
Cleveland Park library opens today
The Botanical Gardens
Especially in winter. In Jan-March I make almost weekly trips to the Botanic gardens to ward off seasonal depression.
100% do the main reading room, but it is DEAD quiet in there.
Try the LoC law library too (not sure the main LoC badge will get you in there anymore, double check that)
Goodness I love dead quiet. All too often people see a need to constantly have music on but that drives me nuts.
I’d go with the Kogod Courtyard.
It’s not free, but I used to study in the National Cathedral on weekdays when nobody was around. It’s a gorgeous space, nobody talks, and there’s plenty of seating. I’m not religious, but it was very zen.
If you want to be outdoors, Bishop's Garden is on the Close grounds and is equally beautiful. There's a fantastic coffee shop right by it too that you could also study in, so long as NCS and STA kids have not taken over all of the seats.
I love the Open City location at the Cathedral, but I don't know how people work or study in there. It's so loud. Because of the roof it's loud even when it's not crowded.
Tryst, Potter’s House, Lapop are full with people studying/working
Tryst can be tough as the noise level can get pretty distracting
Tryst in Adams Morgan.
The coffee and food are pretty s***, but there are super comfy couches and no one will kick you out.
