https://www.reddit.com/r/washingtondc/comments/1kggh4w/underrated_study_spots/

Underrated study spots
Does anybody have any recommendations for quiet, beautiful places to do work in DC? My regular spots (the Main Reading Room in the Library of Congress, Folger Shakespeare, DAR, Freemason [this one really hurt], and MLK libraries seem to have gone semi-viral on Tiktok this year and are no longer as reliably quiet/uncrowded. I'm a student at AU, and our library is just... unbelievably depressing, so I'm looking for places to sit and work on my final papers. I was thinking about trying Georgetown's library, but from my understanding, it's only accessible to students. Is it at all feasible to get in without a student ID? I'm 21 and a junior (almost senior, woohoo!!!) in undergrad, so I would definitely blend in. I had also been thinking about going to the Peabody Library in Baltimore, but it's just a little bit too out of the way for a spontaneous day trip. I know my list is somewhat exhaustive but I'm hoping that there might be one or two places I've overlooked, and I'd appreciate some insight from DMV locals :)
1y ago
Well, good news. If you have an AU library card it gives you full privileges at Georgetown and many other local schools.
https://www.wrlc.org
You need your student ID + an actual account at the AU library, but then you’re as good as any other student.
6mo ago
Probably still alive! I’ve never been, but according to the website, yes, Howard is included in this.
1y ago
Atrium at National Portrait Gallery
and the study hall upstairs.
Probably not underrated since it is 100% the top comment in any thread about nice places to read/study.
If you’re willing to trek up to Takoma (I commuted to AU for grad school from here and it wasn’t too bad!), our neighborhood library is fabulous. It was originally a Carnegie library. You can grab a coffee at lost sock and a donut at donut run right around the corner too!
Does it have parking or just street parking?
There's usually lots of street parking nearby but I would highly encourage just metro-ing there since it's right there
There's a balcony area you can sit at -- at the Cleveland Park library.
That’s near me but I never knew they had a balcony area, I’ll have to check it out
Yeah you can see it from the outside actually. It's on the right side if you are facing the building.
What about the atrium at the National Building Museum? I have no idea if there’s wifi, but it’s one of my favorite places to just sit and read. It’s like the portrait gallery atrium, but less crowded. Depending on the day/weather there may be families with kids running around, but personally that doesn’t bother me. And the coffee shop has been closed for repairs but it’s good when it’s open!
If you like the Library of Congress, try the Science and Business Reading Room instead. Much quieter.
Was going to suggest this as well. It's always very quiet and lightly populated when I'm there.
I'll throw out a less typical suggestion.
The Arboretum Community Center. Brand new building. Don't think I've ever seen a single person inside it once. Nice view and a 10 second walk from the entrance if you feel like taking a stroll during a break.
I used to go to Katzen or SIS. They both have some good study spaces out of the way. If you are okay working outside, the national Cathedral has some lovely tucked away spots for studying on its grounds and it’s not too far from campus.
Not telling bc I don’t want them to go viral. But there’s a library at DOI.
And you can go into one of the other reading rooms at LOC. MANUSCRIPTS, etc.
Weekdays the upstairs at La Cosecha is probably pretty quiet (though not library quiet)
Southwest Library
Besides the atrium at American Art, upstairs at the Luce Foundation there is space with tables and chairs to work and study and it’s usually super quiet. Downstairs at African Art at the special exhibition gallery on the left there is an area with lots of open space and seating.
The portrait gallery has some great quiet spots.
I'm also looking for a study/reading spot. Ideally a rooftop near eastern market.
