https://www.reddit.com/r/washingtondc/comments/1521vi4/best_cafes_in_dc_for_working_or_studying/

Best Cafes in DC for working or studying?
I am searching for cozy places to spend a few hours working outside of the house. I live between DuPont Circle and Logan Circle, but I hope the recommendations in this thread can be of use to people that live elsewhere in the city.
3y ago
The MLK library is so cozy and airy and light-filled and has a delicious cafe! You can grab something and then find a cozy spot.
I also did not know about the rooftop for the longest time, lol.
Plus if you use the library you’re not bogarting a seat at a cafe.
Just be sure to check the MLK library hours on the weekend, because they’re different
Sub users have created this crowd-sourced document. And this one is the most comprehensive.
Thank you for the links, I’d never seen these and they’re super helpful!!
Whoa, thanks for sharing—hadn’t seen these before, and they’re great to have!
Philz has closed, sadly! They have incredible coffee... still have them in the West.
Awesome resource. Thank you!
Emissary in DuPont.
When I’ve been (weekend) it’s soooo full. Also, some tables are cramped - we were hella jostled because our table had a tight walkway on either side. Also it was pretty loud. It is a large spot however and I’d also still recommend it
Disagree! I've never had a very good experience there.
For one, it's usually crowded. Second, there are no outlets except for one or maybe two in the back. Third, the wifi sucks (completely unusable a few weeks ago when I was there last).
And, I get it -- they don't want people spending the whole day there for the price of a single cup of coffee, so they make it as inhospitable as they can. I would still go for evening cocktails or a date, but I'd never recommend it as a good place to work or study.
The Line Hotel
Also please ignore anyone who says “the inside of the national portrait gallery”. That’s the worst
For Logan Circle I recommend Big Bear! I haven't gone for working/studying but I have done reading there and it has a really nice patio but also nice indoor seating. Slipstream is also a great option for the LC area.
Another favorite of mine is in Georgetown, but it's worth the trek imo. That would be Compass Coffee.
The Runaway in Brookland now opens at 8am with coffee and breakfast. When they first rolled out their morning hours they explicitly said they wanted to welcome remote workers into the space during the day. So I don't think they mind if you camp out with your laptop for a while.
Call Your Mother West End-has the entire Yours Truly lobby/seating. Tatte (not cozy, but good for work). Foxtrot (oddly chill). Line Hotel (sometimes too dark for my liking, so major cozy vibe). Wydown (small but cozy, easy to get work done).
Dan's Cafe
This is the answer to every question
finally, some respect.
Soho tea and coffee in dupont has lots of tables, wifi and is quiet, that’s my favorite. Emissary is also good but go to the 20st Street location, the one on P is really loud. Mt pleasant library is also great. Other faves around the city are lost sock in Takoma (no wifi though), dua coffee in mcpherson square, buna in petworth, and a baked joint (loud and no wifi though).
Dans Cafe
If you’re looking for quaint the Open City coffee shop in the National Cathedral is great. Barely crowded and has an amazing view if you sit on the porch. Feels like you’re in Europe
Dans cafe
2y ago
Crazy
3y ago
check out Tryst in Adams Morgan. Coffee food and drinks
2y ago
I’m there now. Good food and drinks. Not enough plugs
3y ago
The inside of the AC hotel by Marriot seems nice
Doubles in Park view
It's not cozy but I like Pitango on Columbia Ave in Adams Morgan. Tryst is popular too
Both Emissary locations (need to watch the time for the P street one but if you go later on the weekends/at night it's nice. Gets a brunch crowd in the mornings.)
1y ago
Compass Georgetown
La Colombe (preferably a bigger one) and Tryst in Adam’s Morgan are good.
Emissary in Dupont, Tryst in AdMo, Tatte (multiple spots), Line Hotel in AdMo, Open City in Woodley Park, The Coffee Bar on S St, Colada Shop in Dupont all fit the bill. I'm sure there's a bunch more.
Don't know about the others but Tryst and Tatte are the opposite of cozy.
3y ago
Tatte is too loud and too packed at basically any minute their open.
Not to mention the wooden chairs that induces scoliosis as quickly as possible to get your ass out
Agree
Double's is my go-to! Strong wifi and coffee, good sandwiches, nice staff, and always space to sit if you're open to the back area they share with Sonny's pizza.
The AC is also very strong -- bring a sweatshirt or something if you're going to be there for a few hours.
Go to slipstream on 14th! You’ll thank me later!
